# Undergraduate-Research
This repository contains some of the work that I completed as an Undergraduate Research Assistant as part of Dr. Kevin J. Liu's lab at MSU.


### UURAF 2019 Project
This folder contains elements of the research project I presented at the University Undergraduate Research and Arts Forum. The folder contains another README file that gives a more detailed description of the project's scripts/documents.

*Abstract*  
One of the many applications of computational biology and bioinformatics is being able to take sequences of DNA and infer their ancestry using statistical models of evolution. These models can be used to deduce a hypothetical phylogenetic tree, describing the path of evolution from their most recent common ancestor, as well as relationships between the sample of genetic sequences. This is often done through a method called maximum likelihood estimation. Given a sample of observation sequences from a population, this method aims to estimate the parameters of the statistical model, in this case the process of evolution, that resulted in the given query sequences. In order to come up with the most accurate inferred path of evolution, multiple samples, all modeled after the original query sequences are generated, and the process of maximum likelihood estimation is repeated for each sample, resulting in many theorized tree structures. Each tree is then assigned a supporting value via bootstrapping that describes how similar it is to the other inferred phylogenies. This project utilizes this process to examine full genomic sequences of three sub species of the house mouse: M.m. domesticus, M.m musculus, and M. spretus across different locations throughout Europe and Asia. Random samples were pulled from each geographical region, and then the evolutionary relationships along single nucleotide polymorphisms were examined in hopes of uncovering information on introgression among the subspecies, including the identification of driver genes, as well as genes essential to fitness. 


### SERES.cpp
Before I delved into a research project involving SERES (a Sequential Resampling algorithm devloped by our lab), my mentor, Dr. Liu wanted me to write my own, simplified version of the algorithm so I could better understand how it works. This algorithm is used for statistical support estimation procedures. In statistics, to gain support for an inference, you ofthen need to repeat your experiment with resampled data. If the results from the resampled data mimic the original results, you can be fairly confident in your original results. Traditionally, resampling is done randomly. However, genetic sequences are unique in that it matters who your neighbors are, so random resampling of DNA sequences can actually result in loss of integrity in those resamples, meaning they won't represent the original data extremely well. SERES combats this problem by choosing a random starting point along a genetic sequences, and a random direction to start "walking"/resampling. The algorithm also takes in an additional parameter, the reversal probability, representing the probability that the walking direction will flip (not including when reaching the end of the sequence). This point of the algorithm is to preserve neighboring bases in statistical resampling.
